By Soraya Dali-Balta, IFRC \n\nIn late February, a cold wave swept across Morocco, bringing strong winds and freezing temperatures to several regions of the country. The Middle Atlas, north of the High Atlas, the Rif and the eastern highlands saw heavy snowfall, while the neighbouring plains faced severe thunderstorms. More than 750,000 people were affected by the unseasonable weather conditions, with many left in urgent need for food, warm clothes and shoes, blankets, medicines, heaters and other winterization items. \n\nAs soon as the first weather warnings were issued, the Moroccan Red Crescent mobilized its branches and volunteers to provide affected communities with relief aid, health assistance and psychosocial services. More than 80 Red Crescent volunteers and 10 staff were involved during the first days of urgent action. Branches in Figuig, Taza, Azilal and Guercif provided continuous feedback to the society’s headquarters as conditions changed in the field, ensuring a coordinated response to the emergency. \n\nThe organization continues distributing relief food and non-food items and medicines, and is providing first aid, psychosocial and medical services through its health posts that are serving community members round the clock. \n\nThe Moroccan Red Crescent has conducted an assessment of the situation and will support up to 1,500 families until the end of April. At least 700 families have benefitted from Moroccan Red Crescent aid so far. Each day, Red Crescent relief reaches more communities - a further 80 families will receive food assistance in Guercif this weekend. The organization will buy blankets and first aid kits to replenish its stocks, in order to continue caring for vulnerable people. \n\nAs a result of the exceptional weather conditions, several illnesses have been recorded among affected  and explanation given on main work to be implemented, the number of beneficiaries and the impact on their lives, mainly women and children.\n\n**For more information, please contact**:  \nClaudio Fauvrelle Tel +258 21 481 100 email: cfauvrelle@unicef.org